The university's visitor is the President of India. The chancellor and chairperson of the governing board is Prof. Arvind Panagariya. The interim vice-chancellor is Prof. Abhay Kumar Singh. The governing board comprises the chancellor, vice-chancellor, representative from member countries, a secretary, two representatives from the Government of Bihar, a representative from the Ministry of Human Resource Development, and three persons in the category of "Renowned Academician or Educationist", Arvind Sharma, Lokesh Chandra and Arvind Panagariya.[51]

The first chancellor of the university was Amartya Sen, followed by former Singapore Minister for Foreign Affairs George Yeo. They left citing concerns about autonomy and political interference in academic matters.[52][53][54][55] Vijay Pandurang Bhatkar has been appointed the new chancellor on 25 January 2017 by President Pranab Mukherjee, in his capacity as Visitor to Nalanda University.[56] In 2017, Interim Vice-Chancellor Pankaj Mohan handed over charge to Professor Sunaina Singh.

Schools and centres
Nalanda is exclusively a graduate school, currently offering master's courses, and doctor of philosophy programmes.

Nalanda University has five functional Schools at present:

School of Historical Studies
School of Ecology and Environmental Studies
School of Buddhist Studies, Philosophy and Comparative Religion
School of Languages and Literature/Humanities
School of Management Studies
The following schools are planned to start later, in a phased manner:

School of International Relations and Peace Studies
School of Information Sciences and Technology
School of Business Management (Public Policy and Development Studies)[57]
Three centres — Centre for Bay of Bengal,[58] Centre for Conflict Resolution and Peace Building, and Common Archival Resource Centre— will be operational soon.[42]

The School of Languages and Literature/Humanities commenced its operations with one year Post-Graduate Diploma Programmes in Pali, Sanskrit, Tibetan, Korean and English in 2018. Master's and doctoral programmes commenced in 2021.[59] It is planned to gradually expand to include other programmes in Indian and foreign languages.

